virtual_scanner/README.md, before:

# Virtual scanner for converting 3D model to point cloud

**Attention:** DO not use this release if you clone the [O-CNN](https://github.com/Microsoft/O-CNN) code before 2018.10.09. You should checkout the version `5dc2240`.

This folder contains the code for converting the 3D models to dense point clouds with normals (\*.points). As detailed in our paper, we build a virtual scanner and shoot rays to calculate the intersection point and oriented normal. 

The code is based on [Boost](https://www.boost.org/), [CGAL](http://www.cgal.org/) and the [Eigen](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) libraries. After configuring these three libraries properly, the code can be built with visual studio easily.

`Note`: Sometimes, the executive file might collapse when the scale of the mesh is very large. This is one bug of CGAL. In order to mitigate this you can run VirtualScanner with the normalize flag set to 1.


## Running Virtual Scanner
The pre-built executive file is contained in the folder `exe`, which has been test on the Win10 x64 system. 

    Usage:  
        VirtualScanner.exe <file_name> [nviews] [flags] [normalize]
            file_name: the name of the file (*.obj; *.off) to be processed.
            nviews: the number of views for scanning. Default: 6
            flags: Indicate whether to output normal flipping flag. Default: 0
            normalize: Indicate whether to normalize input mesh. Default: 0
    Example:
        VirtualScanner.exe input.obj 14         // process the file input.obj
        VirtualScanner.exe D:\data\ 14          // process all the obj/off files under the folder D:\Data

The result is in the format of `points`, which can be parsed with the following code:

```cpp
#include "points.h"

// ...
// Specify the filename of the points
string filename = "your_pointcloud.points";

// Load points
Points points;
points.read_points(filename)

// Point number
int n =  points.info().pt_num();

// Whether does the file contain point coordinates?
bool has_points = points.info().has_property(PtsInfo::kPoint);
// Get the pointer to points: x_1, y_1, z_1, ..., x_n, y_n, z_n
const float* ptr_points = points.ptr(PtsInfo::kPoint);

// Whether does the file contain normals?
bool has_normals = points.info().has_property(PtsInfo::kNormal);
// Get the pointer to normals: nx_1, ny_1, nz_1, ..., nx_n, ny_n, nz_n
const float* ptr_points = points.ptr(PtsInfo::kNormal);

// Whether does the file contain per-point labels?
bool has_labels = points.info().has_property(PtsInfo::kLabel);
// Get the pointer to labels: label_1, label_2, ..., label_n
const float* ptr_labels = points.ptr(PtsInfo::kLabel);
```


## Building On Windows
To build in Windows you can use [Vcpkg](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg) to install/build all the dependencies. Note this takes a long time.
```
git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg
cd vcpkg
.\bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
.\vcpkg integrate install
.\vcpkg install cgal eigen3 boost --triplet x64-windows
```
Then to build, you can use the supplied solution file VirtualScanner.sln


## Building On Ubuntu
To build with ubuntu, you can use apt for the dependencies.
```
apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends libboost-all-dev libcgal-dev libeigen3-dev
```
Then you can use g++ to build the executable
```
g++ main.cpp virtual_scanner.cpp points.cpp  -O3 -DNDEBUG --std=c++11 -fPIC -Wall -Wno-sign-compare -Wno-uninitialized -fopenmp -lboost_filesystem -lboost_system -lCGAL -I /usr/include/eigen3 -o virtualscanner
```


If you use our code, please cite our paper.

    @article {Wang-2017-OCNN,
        title     = {O-CNN: Octree-based Convolutional Neural Networks for 3D Shape Analysis},
        author    = {Wang, Peng-Shuai and Liu, Yang and Guo, Yu-Xiao and Sun, Chun-Yu and Tong, Xin},
        journal   = {ACM Transactions on Graphics (SIGGRAPH)},
        volume    = {36},
        number    = {4},
        year      = {2017},
    }

Commit message:

Build system changes and multithreading -Separated out virtualscanner executable from library. -Added CMAKE build generator -Edited strtok function so that it is thread safe, and added back multithreading

virtual_scanner/README.md, after:

# Virtual scanner for converting 3D model to point cloud

**Attention:** DO not use this release if you clone the [O-CNN](https://github.com/Microsoft/O-CNN) code before 2018.10.09. You should checkout the version `5dc2240`.

This folder contains the code for converting the 3D models to dense point clouds with normals (\*.points). As detailed in our paper, we build a virtual scanner and shoot rays to calculate the intersection point and oriented normal. 

The code is based on [Boost](https://www.boost.org/), [CGAL](http://www.cgal.org/) and the [Eigen](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) libraries. After configuring these three libraries properly, the code can be built with visual studio easily.

`Note`: Sometimes, the executive file might collapse when the scale of the mesh is very large. This is one bug of CGAL. In order to mitigate this you can run VirtualScanner with the normalize flag set to 1.


## Running Virtual Scanner
The pre-built executive file is contained in the folder `prebuilt_binaries`, which has been test on the Win10 x64 system. 

    Usage:  
        VirtualScanner.exe <file_name> [nviews] [flags] [normalize]
            file_name: the name of the file (*.obj; *.off) to be processed.
            nviews: the number of views for scanning. Default: 6
            flags: Indicate whether to output normal flipping flag. Default: 0
            normalize: Indicate whether to normalize input mesh. Default: 0
    Example:
        VirtualScanner.exe input.obj 14         // process the file input.obj
        VirtualScanner.exe D:\data\ 14          // process all the obj/off files under the folder D:\Data

The result is in the format of `points`, which can be parsed with the following code:

```cpp
#include "points.h"

// ...
// Specify the filename of the points
string filename = "your_pointcloud.points";

// Load points
Points points;
points.read_points(filename)

// Point number
int n =  points.info().pt_num();

// Whether does the file contain point coordinates?
bool has_points = points.info().has_property(PtsInfo::kPoint);
// Get the pointer to points: x_1, y_1, z_1, ..., x_n, y_n, z_n
const float* ptr_points = points.ptr(PtsInfo::kPoint);

// Whether does the file contain normals?
bool has_normals = points.info().has_property(PtsInfo::kNormal);
// Get the pointer to normals: nx_1, ny_1, nz_1, ..., nx_n, ny_n, nz_n
const float* ptr_points = points.ptr(PtsInfo::kNormal);

// Whether does the file contain per-point labels?
bool has_labels = points.info().has_property(PtsInfo::kLabel);
// Get the pointer to labels: label_1, label_2, ..., label_n
const float* ptr_labels = points.ptr(PtsInfo::kLabel);
```

## Building On Windows
To build in Windows you can,

1. Edit the project files to point to Boost, Eigen and CGAL,

or 

2. Use [Vcpkg](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg) to install/build all the dependencies (note this takes a long time).
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg
  cd vcpkg
  .\bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
  .\vcpkg integrate install
  .\vcpkg install cgal eigen3 boost --triplet x64-windows
  ```
  Then to build, you can use the supplied solution file VirtualScanner.sln


## Building On Ubuntu
To build with ubuntu, you can use apt for the dependencies.
```
apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends libboost-all-dev libcgal-dev libeigen3-dev
```
Then you can use cmake to build the executable
From this project's directory,
```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ../virtualscanner/
make
```

If you use our code, please cite our paper.

    @article {Wang-2017-OCNN,
        title     = {O-CNN: Octree-based Convolutional Neural Networks for 3D Shape Analysis},
        author    = {Wang, Peng-Shuai and Liu, Yang and Guo, Yu-Xiao and Sun, Chun-Yu and Tong, Xin},
        journal   = {ACM Transactions on Graphics (SIGGRAPH)},
        volume    = {36},
        number    = {4},
        year      = {2017},
    }
